New How-To chapter (#100)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/how-to/releasing.rst

Increase by one unit the value of ``Z`` in your project version. Stash and
amend these new changes using:

.. code-block:: text

   git add . && git commit --amend -m "Bump version X.Y.Z version"

Tag previous commit by running:

.. code-block:: text

   git tag vX.Y.Z

Push the commit and the tag:

.. code-block:: text

   git push -u origin release/X.Y && git push origin vX.Y.Z

Publishing Artifacts
--------------------
When a new version is released, some artifacts are provided with it. In Python,
these :ref:`Artifacts` are typically the ``Wheel`` and ``Source`` files.
Documentation in the form of PDF and HTML are also considered artifacts.

.. admonition:: Do not distribute artifacts without approval

   Refer to :ref:`Project Approval` for more information about requesting
   approval for publishing your project.

Publishing to Private PyPI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There are cases in which it is necessary to host and pull packages that are
not ready to be hosted to the public `PyPI`_. For example, if a PyAnsys library
requires auto-generated gRPC interface files from an as-of-yet private feature
or service, this package should be hosted on a private PyPI repository.

> ANSYS has a private repository at `PyAnsys PyPI`_, and access is controlled via
> a secret ``Personal Access Token (PAT)``, specified in the GitHub secret
> ``PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT`` which is only available to repositories within the
> `PyAnsys`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ANSYS has a private repository at `PyAnsys PyPI`_. Access is controlled via
a secret ``Personal Access Token (PAT)`` that is specified in the GitHub secret
``PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT``, which is available only to repositories within
`PyAnsys`_.
```

> .. admonition:: A note on secrets access in forked repositories

Reviewer: Couldn't this just be a .. note:: directive?

Author: This admonition renders like a note but with a custom bold title.

   Forked GitHub repositories do not have access to GitHub secrets. This is
   designed to protect against PRs that could potentially scrape tokens from
   our CI/CD.

Upload
++++++
Packages can be uploaded to the private repository with the following short
bash script. If you are operating out of a GitHub CI pipeline, email the
PyAnsys Core team at pyansys.core@ansys.com for the ``PAT``,

> ``PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT``.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that the "... for the ...." conclusion is clear enough.  Perhaps change to "... for the required ``PAT`` user name and ``PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT`` password. Maybe that's too much--but since this instruction appears before the code example, I think more information would make it clearer.

Author: I agree with this, @PipKat.

> Assuming you are already in a Python repository containing your wheels and/or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that you are already in a Python repository containing your wheels,
```

> Assuming you are already in a Python repository containing your wheels and/or
> source distribution within the ``dist`` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that you are already in a Python repository's ``dist`` directory that contains
your wheel, source distribution, or both, upload to the private repository with :
```

Reviewer: The style checkers we talk about will warn against using and/or, telling you to rewrite it. This is why I changed that part of the sentence. The objective is always to ensure clarity and "and/or" leaves too much to interpretation.

Author: We definitely need to implement [vale](https://github.com/errata-ai/vale). Opened issue https://github.com/pyansys/dev-guide/issues/104 about this.

.. code::

   pip install build twine pip -U

   REPOSITORY_URL="https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/pyansys/_packaging/pyansys/pypi/upload"
   python -m twine upload dist/* \
     -p ${{ secrets.PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT }} \
     -u PAT \
     --repository-url $REPOSITORY_URL

> Alternatively, you can use environment variables instead of CLI arguments for twine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use environment variables instead of CLI arguments for Twine.
```

.. code::

   export TWINE_USERNAME=PAT
   export TWINE_PASSWORD=$PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT
   export TWINE_REPOSITORY_URL="https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/pyansys/_packaging/pyansys/pypi/upload"

   python -m twine upload dist/*

Download
++++++++

> To download the Python package from the `PyAnsys PyPI`_, use the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You download a Python package from `PyAnsys PyPI`_, with:
```

.. code::

   INDEX_URL=https://$PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT@pkgs.dev.azure.com/pyansys/_packaging/pyansys/pypi/simple/
   pip install ansys-<product/tool>-<library> --index-url $INDEX_URL --no-dependencies

.. note::

>    An additional read-only PAT is available for individual users who only need to download the package.
>    It can be stored as an environment variable and be used just as described in the code sample above.
>    Please email the PyAnsys Core team at pyansys.core@ansys.com to get access to this PAT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A read-only PAT is available for users who need only to download the package.
   It can be stored as an environment variable and be used as described in the code sample above.
   To get access to this PAT, email the PyAnsys Core team at `pyansys.core@ansys.com <pyansys.core@ansys.com>`.
```

.. warning::

>    Take care to always use the ``--index-url`` switch rather than the
>    ``--extra-index-url`` switch. As noted in the `pip Documentation`_, the
>    ``--index-url`` switch changes the Python Package Index, and forces ``pip``
>    to only use packages from that package index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Take care to always use the ``--index-url`` switch rather than the
   ``--extra-index-url`` switch. As noted in `pip Documentation`_, the
   ``--index-url`` switch changes the Python Package Index, which forces ``pip``
   to use only packages from that package index.
```

>    Our package index uses PyPI upstream, and therefore other users cannot
>    inject packages from PyPI that would supersede our packages, even if they
>    are of a higher version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Our package index uses PyPI upstream. Therefore other users cannot
   inject packages from PyPI that would supersede our packages, even if they
   are of a higher version.
```

>    This is not the case if you use ``--extra-index-url``, which adds rather
>    than replaces the default package index. For security do not use
>    ``--extra-index-url``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is not the case if you use ``--extra-index-url``, which adds to rather
   than replaces the default package index. For security, do not use
   ``--extra-index-url``.
```
